Ok so now that we're able to relate data and store products that are related to a user, let's work on
that shopping cart and the orders again so that we can do more to just look at the products. Now previously,
in our user model in the part which is now commented out, I had utility methods like add to cart to add
products to the cart of that user
and actually it was really useful to have these because that allowed us to move logic from our controller
into the model which is typically where your data related logic should live.
So therefore I will re-add it and mongoose makes this really simple,
you can work on your schema so on my user schema here
and then there you'll have a methods key.
The methods key is an object which allows you to add your own methods by simply well adding them, Add
to Cart
and this should now be a function
and the important part is it has to be a function written like this so that the this keyword in there still
refers to the schema and not to something else
and now in this function you can add your own logic and that is exactly what I want to do. In this function,
I want to add the logic I had in Add to Cart before and tweak it a little bit.
So let's grab all that code from Add to Cart,
let's add it here and comment it back in.
Now the function here should also receive the product which I want to add,
that is something we required in the past as well,
so we still will get a product to that function, this is something we just need to assume because we are
the one writing the code in the end.
And now in there, we should still be able to use these cart items because our schema has a cart and then
an items array,
so this should still work
and keep in mind this will be called on a real instance based on that schema,
so really on an object which will have a populated cart with either an empty array of items or an array
of items with items in there.
So this code should still work for getting the product index.
I also still want to control my quantity as before and update my cart as before
by first of all copying it, then I will keep the logic of checking whether we already do have the product
in the cart in which case I'll calculate the new quantity based on the old quantity
and then I'll update my array or if I will update my array by pushing a new object onto it.
Now here the thing just is this will not work like that
but I can just store the product ID like this and mongoose should automatically wrap it in an object
ID,
the quantity can be stored like this however and this should fit my schema of an item with product in
the quantity,
so make sure that the names you used up there in your schema are the names you use down there for creating
new data.
So with that, I got my updated cart,
now I don't need to get access to the database like this
instead here, I will indeed return something but I will not manually update this
instead I will just call this save which should work, before I do that
I just need to set this cart equal to the updated cart.
Now this should be a utility method that saves itself so where the object saves itself by using
the built-in save method where we update the cart,
now let's see if that works as it should. Let's go to the shop.js file and there we have all our
post cart method.
Now I find my product by ID which still should work because mongoose gives us this function and then
I do indeed call request user add to cart which should now also work because we just added this method
to the user object in our user model,
so this should work without any changes hopefully,
let's go to the routes therefore and comment that post cart route back in. If I now save everything,
let's go to products and let's try add to cart,
I do get some output here
and let's now have a look at compass and looking into the users, there I have my cart, I got my items and
I got an ID in there. Now that was added by mongoose automatically, it adds IDs for sub-documents
as well
but most importantly I got my product ID and that product ID which ends with 3C6 should be the ID
of that product and it is. And now let's confirm if that really works by going back again and adding that
same product to the cart again,
it still doesn't find the page it wants to load but that is
alright. Let's update our users collection now,
look into the cart,
we got one object with quantity 2.
So this is working
and this shows us the power of mongoose, we get a bunch of nice built-in methods which we also leverage
here in our own method which we can add and which we then can call on our objects and are based on our schema.